# Audit exporter tool

Allows you to export audit data from the SafetyCulture Platform and save them anywhere on your computer.

Supported export formats: PDF, MS WORD (docx), JSON

## Installation

  - Install Python 2.7+ (if not already installed)
  - Install pip (if not already installed)
  - Execute the following command from the command line from within this directory:

    ``pip install -r requirements.txt``
  - Edit config.yaml and replace ``YOUR_SAFETYCULTURE_API_TOKEN`` with your SafetyCulture API token


## How to run

### Common usage

To export in PDF format all audit reports owned by your SafetyCulture account including those shared with you by other SafetyCulture users open a command line prompt and run:

```
python exporter.py
```

or simply double click exporter.py

To specify the export format explicitly run:

```
python exporter.py --formats pdf
```

More than one supported formats can be exported at once e.g.

```
python exporter.py --formats pdf docx json
```

Note:

* Only data of completed audits will be exported
* Only audits that are owned by or shared with the SafetyCulture user account that generated the API token will be exported
* Up to a 1000 audits will be exported at each run of the tool. To export more than 1000 audits keep running the tool until no audits are returned (see Setting the export start date section below).

## Troubleshooting

### Audit failed to transfer

If an audit failed to transfer the export process will not stop, it will simply record the failure in the log file and continue. You can find the log files under the log/ directory. To retry a failed audit export you can reset the export start date as shown in "Setting the export start date" below.

### SafetyCulture API token expired

Generate a new API token from the iAuditor web application and replace it in the config.yaml file of the top-level directory of this repository.

## Setting the export start date

Once you have successfully used this tool to extract audit reports, the next time you run it it will only export reports newer than the last time it ran. To reset the export start date edit or delete the file last_successful.txt generated by the exporter tool in this directory. The time is UTC in ISO 8061 format (example: 2016-10-20T05:19:18.352Z).

IMPORTANT: Exporting large numbers of audits in bulk over and over again may result in your account being throttled or your API token revoked.

### Advanced usage

You may want to maintain multiple export configurations in different YAML configuration files. To use a specific configuration file (other than config.yaml) do

```
python exporter.py --config=alternate_config.yaml
```

Arguments can be combined e.g. - `python exporter.py --config=alternate_config.yaml --formats pdf json`

## Automatic exporting

Set the application to run on a recurring schedule with Task Scheduler (on Windows), cron or other scheduling mechanism to keep up to date with all of your audit reports.

## Export settings

To override default export settings edit config.yaml in this directory.

Things you can configure:

|  Setting | Description  |
|---|---|
| export_path  | absolute or relative path to the directory where to save exported data to  |
| timezone |  an Olson timezone to be used in generated audit reports. If invalid or missing, reports will use the timezone local to the computer running the export tool |
| filename  |  an audit item ID whose response is going to be used to name the files of exported audit reports. Can only be an item with a response type of `text` from the header section of the audit such as Audit Title, Document No., Client / Site, Prepared By, Personnel, or any custom header item which has a 'text' type response |
| export_profiles  | to apply an export profile transformation to particular templates, give here a list of export profile ids

Here is an example customised config.yaml:

```
export_options:
    export_path: /Users/Monty/Dropbox
    timezone: America/Chicago
    filename: f3245d40-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66
export_profiles:
    template_3E631E46F466411B9C09AD804886A8B4:E15A6525-EFA5-4835-92F0-D11CA9F364F3
    template_3E631E46F466411B9C09AD804886A8B4:E50645A1-2851-4E92-B4EA-60C5CE7981BE
    ...
    ...
```

## Naming the exported files

When configuring a custom filename convention in export settings (in config.yaml) you can provide an audit item ID from the ones below to cause all exported audit reports be named after the response of that particular item in the audit.

| Item Name| Item ID|
|---|---|
|Audit Title |f3245d40-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66|
|Conducted By |f3245d43-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66|
|Document No |f3245d46-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66|
|Client Site |f3245d41-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66|
|Conducted On (Date) |f3245d42-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66|
|Conducted At (Location) |f3245d44-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66|
|Personnel |f3245d45-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66|

or from any other header item of the audit created by the user (a custom header item). Tip: To find the item ID of such custom header items export one audit from the template of interest in JSON format and inspect the contents to identify the item ID of interest in the 'header_items' section.


E.g. the following `config.yaml`

```
export_options:
    filename: f3245d40-ea77-11e1-aff1-0800200c9a66
```

will result in all exported files named after the `Conducted On` date field.

Here are some item IDs

  
## How to list available export profile IDs

<TODO>

Note: Templates for which there is no export profile id listed will be exported without a profile applied

